# SURVIVAL ART

SURVIVAL Art Review is an artistic undertaking intended to maximize the confrontation with the audience in a public space outside art galleries. The organizers’ ambition is to introduce problems raised in young art into public discourse and to provoke the audience to a lively response. Artists taking part in SURVIVAL take the challenge to realize their projects in the urban jungle, in public buildings and in open spaces. The incentive to act is provided by the urban agglomeration with its multitude of meanings. The context of the situation determines the character of the intervention, the possible interpretation of one’s self, which is immersed in the contemporary world. The art created outside the places, which excuse and protect its presence, confronts the reality taken over by mass media, advertisements, economy and politics. In this confrontation art can prove its greatness or reveal its weakness and unnecessity. (https://www.survival.art.pl/en/idea-2/)

## TECH STACH

HTML, CSS, JS (THREE.JS) AND MICROPHONE API.
THE APP WILL BE RUNNING ON A RASPBERRY PI CONNECTED TO A PROJECTOR AND A MICROPHONE.
THE ROOM WILL BE FULL OF CHAIRS CLOSE TO THE WALL. THE MICROPHONE WILL BE HIDDEN IN THE BACK, SO ANONYMOUS PEOPLE WILL CREATE EXPERIENCES FOR THE VIEWERS

## SUBJECT

The word ersatz (erzac in Polish, from the German ersetzen – to replace) came into prominence during World War I, initially in Germany, but gradually in most of the countries involved in the conflict. An ersatz is a substitute for a thing or activity – an imitation of something that is indispensable or highly desirable, usually of inferior quality, but sharing characteristics with the original, such as a sweet taste or similar effect. (https://www.survival.art.pl/en/survival-21-2/)

## INTERPRETATION

ERZAC IS A SUBSTITUTE, SOMETHING OF INFERIOR QUALITY.
THE AMOUNT OF DATA WE PERCEIVE IS OFTEN OVERWHELMING. BUT WHAT IS TRUE AND WHAT IS FAKE?
THIS CONCEPT GOES WAY BACK TO ANCIENT GREECE, WHERE PLATO DESCRIBED THE ALLEGORY OF A CAVE (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Allegory_of_the_cave).
EXPERIENCE OF THE PEOPLE SITTING CLOSE TO THE SCREEN WILL AFFECTED BY THOSE, WHO WILL BE TALKING IN THE BACK AND BY NOISES GENERATED BY THE CITY.

## IMPLEMENTATION

THIS ART INSTALLATION WILL FOLLOW THE GENERATIVE ART GENRE. EVERYTHING WILL BE GENERATED AND RENDERED LIVE. THE MOOD OF THE SCENE WILL DEPEND ON THE LOUDNESS OF THE SPACE. SCREAMS OR SILENT WHISPERS? A ROOM FULL OF PEOPLE OR A SINGLE OBSERVER? EVERY SINGLE EXPERIENCE WILL BE DIFFERENT.
